How to play Caída:

In this game the main objective of each player (or team of players) is to get 24 or more points in different ways provided by the game mechanisms, be it by the Cantos (combos) which is when a player says the name of a specific combo it has, giving a specific amount of points depending on the combo the player has, and also receives points according to other game rules and card accumulation.

This game can be played by 2-4 players or 2 teams of 2 players.

This game uses Spanish playing cards, which use the values 1-7 and 10-12. 7 and 10 are treated as continuous.

The basics:

Before the game begins, a player should be defined as the dealer, commonly all cards are laid on the table and each player picks a card at random, the one with the card of highest value is the dealer (if there's a tie this is repeated between the tied players). The dealer deals the deck for the first turn. Other methods can be used to decide the dealer. If played with teams, the players swap their places so teammates are in front of each other.

Then the dealer starts counting either starting from 1 up to 4 or from 4 down to 1, while dealing a card for each number, dealing 4 cards to the table, if a number matches the card's value, that value is added to the dealer's score. If no card matches a count number, the table is "badly dealt", and the player that goes after the dealer gets a point. If a dealt card has the same value as another on the table, it is put again in the deck (randomly placed). If this happens 3 times during the dealing, the dealer loses his chance to deal, and the next player gets to deal.

After dealing the cards to the table, each player is dealt 3 cards, and the game begins.

The first player to play its cards is the one to the left of the dealer.

In a player's turn, it says the name of his combo, if has any, then it has to throw one of his cards, and:
    If no card with the same value is on the table, then the player leaves the card in the table and ends the turn.
    If a card with the same value is on the table, then the player can pick that card and put it in his accumulated cards.
        The player can continue picking cards not with the same value, but with the previous picked card's value plus one, until there are no more cards that can be picked, note that the player isn't required to pick all possible cards, depending on the player's strategy, it can pick just the one matching, all possible, or something in between.
    Examples:
        a) Table: 3, 6, 10, 12; Hand: 1, 2, 5; The player can throw any card, but cannot pick any, because none matches.
        b) Table: 2, 5, 7, 11; Hand: 2, 3, 10; The player can pick the 2 with his 2, or just throw the 3 or 10 (depending on strategy)
        c) Table: 4, 6, 7, 10; Hand: 4, 6, 7; The player can pick the 4 with his 4, the 6, 7 and 10 using the 6 (7 and 10 are continuous), or the 7 and 10 using the 7, or just the 7 and leave the 10, or many others.

Once the player has finished collecting or placing cards, finishes the turn and the next player starts its turn. 

After each player runs out of cards, the player with the best combo (the one with the most valuable combo, and if two players have the same combo, the one with the highest cards, if both have the same, then the closer to the dealer) adds the combo value to its score, and a new round should be dealt.

If a round ends and there are no more cards on the deck, each player counts its accumulated cards up to a limit, for each card over that limit, one point is added to the player or team score. The limits are:
    2 players: 20.
    3 players: Dealer 14, others 13.
    4 players: 10.
    Teamed 2v2: Each team both player's accumulated count, then count up to 20.

If after counting there aren't any winners, all cards are collected, shuffled, and a new round starts. The player to the left of the dealer becomes the new dealer. The game continues as specified above.

Combos:

When a hand is dealt, it can make one of the game combinations, which are:
    Ronda: Two cards of the same value and one with a different value. The points rewarded depend of the value of the card pair:
        1-7: 1 point.
        10:  2 points.
        11:  3 points.
        12:  4 points.
    Trivilin: Three cards of the same value. A Trivilin of 12 makes the player instantly a winner. 5 points.
    Patrulla: Three cards in ascending order (e.g. 3, 4, 5 or 7, 10, 11). 12 does not wrap to 1. 6 points.
    Vigia: Two cards of the same value and one with its value equal to the next or prior value of the pair (e.g. 4, 4, 5 or 7, 10, 10). 7 points.
    Registro: Cards with the values 1, 11 and 12. 8 points.

    The next combos are optional in a game, sometimes they're used, sometimes not:

    Maguaro: Cards with the values 1, 10 and 12. 9 points.
    Registrico: Cards with the values 1, 10 and 11. 10 points.
    Casa Chica: Cards with the values 1, 11 and 11. 11 points.
    Casa Grande: Cards with the values 1, 12 and 12. 12 points.

Special moves:

Mesa limpia (Table clear): If a player after completing its turn, leaves the table with no cards in it, the player receives a bonus of 4 points. Mesa limpia isn't awarded in the last round (i.e. The last deal of a deck).

Caída (Fall): If a player only throws a card to the table in its turn (not picking anything), the next player can pick that card with one of its cards (and continue picking, of course), giving the player that threw the card a Caída, which value depends on the value of the card picked as part of the caida. The points awarded to the player that did the Caída (the picking player) are:
    1-7: 1 point.
    10:  2 points.
    11:  3 points.
    12:  4 points.

